hey everyone laszlo Montgomery here with
episode 151 another long requested topic
this one concerns the USA I hope the
fifty-five percent of you whose IP
address is not located here in the
beautiful country don't mind we haven't
had any America theme topic since Wang
Qin foo episode number 136 so we're kind
of do America and China began getting
acquainted back in 1783 right after we
officially became a nation we looked at
that in CHP 127 in the 232 years since
the US and China first shook hands
relations between the two countries well
they've had their ups and downs of the
old imperialist days in China we say we
weren't as bad as the British or the
French but our hands aren't entirely
clean and since nineteen forty nine
there's been the Korean War John Foster
Dulles a--'s dissing of Joann lie at the
1954 Geneva Conference Vietnam War the
shakeout after june fourth may 1999
bombing of the Chinese embassy in
Belgrade the april two thousand one high
nine incident there's been no shortage
of low points in the history of us-china
relations but today's China history
podcast episode is not about one of the
low points in Jong make when she today
we look back on one of the high points
today's story concerns the actions of
Americans who left the relative comfort
of their nice American lives and went to
China to join together with the people
there to fight for a common cause to
push back against Japanese who had
invaded China and we're causing terrible
suffering wherever they went the history
of the Flying Tigers and what they
accomplished in their short time on the
stage of Chinese history truly is a
shining example of Joel Mayfield saw
cooperation between China and the US in
this China history podcast episode let's
accentuate the positive and focus on one
of the times when the US and China came
together at a crucial historic
moment as friends and allies if you
remember japan's march into china began
with the end of the sino-japanese war in
the Treaty of Shimonoseki the maguann
tell ya in 1895 the hundred and 20th
anniversary coming up soon as I record
this then the mukden incident Joey ba in
1931 Japan helped themselves to
Manchuria and then finally came the chi
Chi sure PN the Marco Polo Bridge
incident takes place 7 7 37 and between
july and december 1937 the entirety of
the might of the Japanese military came
crashing down hard and China the Nanjing
Massacre stands out as the symbol of
this particular period in Chinese
history so horrible were these years
following the invasion in July 1937 that
even in today's 21st century
sino-japanese world the animosity still
boils there are many stories of bravery
on the part of the Chinese who resisted
Japan in the beginning but pretty much
from this marco polo bridge incident up
until the time Uncle Sam recovered from
the initial shock of Pearl Harbor China
had gone it alone and they were getting
clobbered in late nineteen forty one
Japan was at the top most of their game
a lot of things went awry for them but
as far as China was concerned Japan was
unstoppable they're bombing runs on the
east coast and into chong ching couldn't
being in other places were deadly on the
ground or in the air it was a terrible
mismatch at this early stage the USA
wasn't in the fight yet we were neutral
therefore no matter where our sympathies
might lie we couldn't go running to
China's rescue that wasn't a viable
option until after war was declared I
guess one of the unsung heroes for the
Chinese side at this dark hour would
have to be TV song brother to the
illustrious song sisters I Ling ching
ling and Meili TV song with instructions
from his famous sister Madame Chiang
kai-shek talked to his friend
in high places in Washington DC and got
the ball rolling and it was TV songs
diplomacy quick thinking understanding
of the big picture and most of all his
personal relationships with the key
people with direct access to the chain
of command that led to the formation of
the avg the American volunteer group we
know the avg more popularly as the
Flying Tigers you'd think with all the
fame that precedes this fabled name in
American military history that their
specific role in world war two would
have lasted for the entirety of the war
from 19 41 to 45 but the history of the
avg was only an eight month long story
the story the Flying Tigers is really
about how America came to China's aid
before FDR said those famous words on
december eight 1941 about the date that
would live and infamy after december 7th
all bets were off once we declared war
on japan there was no need to keep up
appearances about being neutral and no
further need for any volunteers as well
that's what the Flying Tigers were all
about really we'll see they all get
incorporated into the various branches
of the service later on then many of
them went on to even more feats of Valor
and heroism throughout the war but for
the eight months December 1941 to July
1942 the ABG were exactly what the name
stood for American volunteers they
volunteered in harsh conditions every
time they went up in the sky they put
their life on the line for China and for
their own country many made the ultimate
sacrifice so let's take a look at the
avg and their heroic story that this
whole thing is true is in itself amazing
there was so much myth and legend
intertwined with the reality of what
went down in 1941 and 1942 maybe you
know about the 1942 John Wayne Flying
Tigers movie and all the hyperbole about
their deeds the claims about the number
of planes shot down varies greatly I
relied mostly
Daniel Ford's respected work flying
tigers Claire Chennault and his American
volunteers 1941 in 1942 it came out in
1991 and was updated and revised in 2007
this latest edition was published by
Harper Collins smithsonian institution
press Daniel Ford is the resident
scholar at the University of New
Hampshire I guess you could call him one
of the top authorities about the avg I
know at the end of that t-series I said
I was going to get away from these
multi-part episodes and do a bunch of
single episodes I was certain this story
could be told at a 45 to 50 minute
episode but alas so soon after my
promise have to go back on my word my
apologies today we'll look at the
circumstances that led to the creation
of the avg then next time we'll look at
their story right after Pearl Harbor
that's when all the action really takes
place I have wrestled with throwing so
many names at you there are about 300
pilots and crew involved in the story
some of the pilots were more famous than
others and some lived on for decades to
tell and retell their story some died
early on during course their mission if
I mention one have to mention them all
so rather than inundate you with names
let me encourage you to read Daniel
Ford's book and you can wallow in all
the minutia about everyone who played
even a small role in this epic story you
will also be treated to a minute by
minute replay of every air battle that
happened down to the most delightful
technical detail I strongly recommend
this book the story of the avg can be
told in part through the telling of the
story of general Claire Chennault I
think the correct way to pronounce it
was Chenault but all the newsreels and
history documentaries call him Chenault
so without any feeling of shame i'm
going to follow those lemmings and hop
on that Chenault bandwagon clearly
Chenault was born in commerce Texas but
his family roots were in the
I you country of Louisiana there are
multiple accounts as to the air Claire
Chennault was born but it was certainly
between eighteen ninety and 1894 the
most accepted date is September 6 1893
he enrolled in Louisiana State
University by the age of 14 and had
volunteered for the ROTC program there
Reserve Officer Training Corps he became
a cadet and began his career as an
unpopular maverick back then until the
day he retired Claire Chennault was
someone who didn't always follow the
rules they often had a kind of
rebellious streak in him that made him
buck Authority I guess you could call
this a self-confidence and disdain for
those who didn't share his vision which
was usually right and because of some of
his actions and words this made him
unpopular with many chief among them
later on would be generals george c
marshall and HAP Arnold those two
carried a lot of weight back in their
day I forgot who said this first but
nothing succeeds like success Chenault
throughout his military career backed up
his words with actions it wasn't just a
big talker Chenault received his teacher
certificate 1910 and began his career as
a schoolteacher in Athens Louisiana in
1911 he married nellie thomson they had
eight children together not all at the
same time the schoolhouse teaching
business wasn't any more financially
rewarding back in 1911 than it is today
so 1916 Chenault went to work at a
goodyear tire factory in akron ohio like
with millions of others his life took a
turn on april six nineteen seventeen
when the USA officially entered world
war one Chenault applied for military
flight training he didn't see any action
in world war one but did learn how to
competently fly a Curtiss JM for or
Jenny as they were called he had a
problem getting into the flight training
program but regardless of these setbacks
he learned to fly and racked up an
astounding amount of hours pretty much
from here on out
clear channel's life was tied to the Air
Force and to flying and flight training
he graduated in april nineteen 19 is
pursuit pilot to the 46th pursuit
squadron in the nineteen twenty national
defense act the Air Force was made part
of the army fifteen hundred officers
were selected to seed this new American
force to be reckoned with Chanel got a
nice plum assignment in 1923 commanding
the 19th pursuit squadron in Hawaii then
in 1931 it became an instructor at the
pursuit school that was relocated at
Maxwell field in Alabama this was the
period in Chenault life where he
developed all the training techniques
and lectures about how to fight in the
air in 1932 should all took on a job
that ultimately led him to the Chinese
the Air Force wanted to create a kind of
blue angels of their day these would be
a team of three pilots who would carry
out all this precision flying and
perform all kinds of aerial acrobatics
they were called the three men on a
flying trapeze besides stunt flying in
front of audiences they carried out all
kinds of testing of flight formations
and air combat techniques the prevailing
attitude at the time was that bombers
were unstoppable once they were in the
air the technology and the technique in
the 1930s wasn't good enough yet where
fighters could be effective Chenault
sigh Diaz about the importance of early
warning systems and utilizing pursuit
planes wasn't accepted at first flying
even in the 1940s was still a relatively
new industry and the manual about how to
carry out combat was still being written
general Maul bang choo visited the u.s.
from China and was taken to see a
performance of the three men he was a
very close confidant of the Jong's and
ran the flight school in Hangzhou he
also held high ranking positions in the
nationalist Chinese Air Force and was
involved in the procurement of planes
and equipment he was close to the major
manufacturer back then the Curtiss
Wright compania Buffalo New York
at the All American air races held in
Miami in December 1935 general Maul was
present as the guest of the curtis
salesman william Pauly Pauly story
deserves its own episode but here he
played a supporting role in making
things happen Pauly handled Curtis sales
to Asia and he was trying to do some
business with general mall and it was
there that mall bhanchu sawed-off
channeled for the first time as he
performed stunts with the three men and
the flying trapeze over drinks
afterwards mal made an offer to Chenault
and his two partners in this group the
offer involved coming to China to teach
flying in combat techniques to the
pilots of the Chinese Air Force Chenault
had planned to retire by 1937 anyway so
the timing of this worked out nicely the
truth is though he had another 21 more
years to live he was not in what you'd
call very good health this chronic
bronchitis was terribly exacerbated by
his three pack-a-day habit and he was
smoking no merit ultralights either old
leather face as some of his associates
called him smoke camels he never let
poor health get him down though he was
extremely active hunted play tennis and
would stay out late and carouse with the
officers play poker get liquored up on
bourbon all night he was that kind of
guy and he understood his men later on
the American volunteers under his
command who weren't Boy Scouts would
gain a well-earned reputation for their
antics that usually offended their
Chinese hosts and certainly their
British cousins Claire Chennault knew
when to look the other way and when to
come down hard in all those years of
flying in open cockpits and around
roaring aircraft engines had pretty much
trashed Chenault herring to the extent
that by the time World War 2 came around
as herring was not all there his health
and too many ruffled feathers in the
chain of command led chenal to
officially retire from the Army Air
Corps on April thirtieth 1937 with the
permanent rank of captain leading up to
this he
it kept a dialogue going with general
mal bhanchu and his people regarding
their offer a two-year consulting deal
was worked out between Chenault and the
Chinese Air Force the Chinese government
had been trying in vain to establish
flight training programs to kick-start
their budding Air Force but all efforts
had led nowhere this attempt to secure
Chanel its expertise was not the first
time they tried hiring outside help
Chenault work directly from madame
chiang kai-shek song mei-ling june third
1937 he met her for the first time
Chenault wrote quote one sultry
afternoon Roy Holbrook appeared and
drove me to a high walled compound in
shanghai's French Concession to meet my
new employer Madame Chiang kai-shek we
were told she was out and ushered into a
dim cool interior to wait suddenly a
vivacious young girl clad in a modest
Paris frock tripped into the room
bubbling with energy and enthusiasm I
assumed it was some young friend of rise
and remain seated Roy poked me and said
madam Jung may I present Colonel
Chenault end quote a secretary general
of China's aeronautical Commission song
mei-ling was in charge of building this
new Chinese Air Force from the ground up
she wanted chenal to study the situation
and offer up to chiang kai-shek his best
assessment and recommendations then he
was also to train crews and support in
the building of airfields and inspect
which of the five hundred aircraft in
their possession were still usable
Chenault will do as instructed and will
come to learn only eighteen percent of
the aircraft were usable less than a
hundred they were courteous Hawk
biplanes Boeing p26 monoplanes an
italian-made Fiat biplanes it was much
but it was a start no sooner did
Chenault arrived in China with a marco
polo bridge incident went down he was
made have combat training at a school
based in nanchang and young she actually
mobile chu was supposed to be in charge
but when Chenault arrived general mal
was gone
some assignment so fearlessly chenal
took charge didn't matter that he had
only been in China six weeks didn't
speak a word of Chinese and wasn't
familiar at all with the culture no
wonder he smoked three packs of camels a
day the training was going to be a hard
slog Chenault found the prospective
pilots lacking and talent training was
poor not existent and the crash rate was
dangerously high when Chenault reported
to john kai-shek about the state of
affairs it didn't mince words told it
like it was for his straight shooting
ways young made Chenault his unofficial
commander of the Chinese Air Force the
caf when initial missions were flown
against the Japanese Chenault was often
in the passenger seat as an observer
risking his life with the rest of them
once on August fourteenth 1937 a bombing
mission to destroy the Japanese vessel
assume all went awry and the bomb load
fell in the city instead killing three
thousand Chinese civilians on September
first 1937 the Generalissimo question
alt in charge of nanjing air defence
Chenault was instrumental in creating
the first of many early warning systems
that utilized a network of Chinese
Watchers spread out over a large area
communicating via radio and telephone
but by the end in 1937 despite all the
training and the initial attempts to
fight back the Japanese had warned the
CAF down to the bone despite all the
punches being thrown the Japanese
military in late nineteen thirty-seven
was simply unstoppable john sent out SOS
is internationally but only the soviets
came to his aid at this stage they sent
several squadrons of planes 300 in all
that were all battle tested in the
Spanish Civil War this assistance lasted
until June 1941 and was pulled back
after Hitler launched Operation
Barbarossa once the Soviets bailed China
was once again left standing alone face
the Japanese onslaught Chenault had
written one of his colleagues quote boy
if the Chinese only had one hundred good
pursue
planes and 100 fair pilots they'd
exterminate the Japanese air force end
quote this is the earliest time the idea
for the avg was mentioned in China
during the fall of 1938 came the
creation of the international squadron
made up of a bunch of western
mercenaries who in the end proved to be
a bunch of goof-offs all their planes
ended up getting bombed by the Japanese
and the whole thing never amounted to
anything all Chenault could do
considering the lack of discipline and
attention to training was shake his head
he was doing the best he could with what
he had but he needed real trained US
military pilots in October 1940 john
kai-shek and song bailing told channel
to head to Washington DC and hook up
with TV song to discuss the procurement
of pilots aircraft and ground crew so
into the fall and winter of 1940 Pearl
Harbor still a year away Chenault hong
meiling and william pauley of Curtiss
Wright worked on this deal the TV song
for two hundred fighters and a hundred
bombers if you remember from that old
CHP 116 episode on John service FDR's
point man on China was one of his
economic advisors Lockland curry FDR had
sent him to China to get an idea of the
situation curry came back in a shirt FDR
and no uncertain terms that John
kai-shek's back was up against the wall
on the place was falling to pieces and
Japan was taken over it was Tommy the
cork Tommy Corcoran one of the first of
the great k street lobbyists along with
pressure from the nascent China lobby
and DC who showed Roosevelt the light
that using the retired Chenault in the
employ of the Chinese gave the United
States all the plausible deniability it
needed and at the same time they could
help out a friend and use this whole
operation as a way to feel out the
Japanese after all those the highest
layers of government knew all that we
were neutral now that wasn't going to
last no matter how much the American
people wanted to stay out of this war
henry morgenthau george c marshall and
Cordell Hull had been the last
turtle then in December 23rd 1940 they
sent the order to FDR for approval total
cost for all the planes was four and a
half million dollars bill Pauly then
arranged for the transport of the planes
to the port of Rangoon John kai-shek and
asked for five hundred aircraft but he
had to settle for 469 these two hundred
p-40s and a few hundred other types of
aircraft thanks to TV songs access to
Lachlan curry and Tommy the cork they
had successfully bent FDR's ear
sufficiently enough so that our 32nd
President signed off on the creation of
the first American volunteer group one
hundred fighters and crew the second
American volunteer group was slated to
have 100 bombers and crew the third avg
would consist of additional fighter
aircraft and for all this hardware the
Chinese government picked up the tab I
believe they paid with loans we provided
though the Chinese aircraft
manufacturing company or Camco was
hastily set up as the front in China to
handle all the procurement of aircraft
parts and crew all the paychecks came
from camco they were the fig leaf that
the u.s. used to show their
non-involvement Chenault deal with china
aeronautical was finalized in order
number 59 87 on august first 1941 it
said quote one the first American
volunteer group is constituted on this
date to Colonel Chenault will organize
this group with American volunteers now
arriving in China to participate in the
war additional personnel required to
complete the organization of this group
shall be supplied by this commission end
quote William Pauley was cam ko's
contact at curtiss-wright he arranged
for the planes to be shipped to burma
where they were assembled and sent to
the avg base on the Union China and
Burma border at low wing so you know
from that ten party series that they had
access to some great tea while they were
there recruiting crew and pilots wasn't
terribly hard no one knew
oooh what they were getting themselves
into so volunteers came forward quickly
everyone was attracted for their own
personal reasons but most of all for the
hype a relative to a military salary the
pay was three hundred dollars a month
for crew chiefs and six hundred dollars
for officer pilots everyone who
volunteered received travel documents
ticket to California hundred dollars for
incidentals passage to Burma and
ultimately to China they were also hand
at five hundred dollars cash to cover
their eventual return to the US when the
job was all done and if anyone was
killed or became disabled camco would
pay six months salary to their
beneficiary and not written into the
contracts was a promise from camco that
for every Japanese fighter or bomber
they shot out of the sky or destroyed on
the ground there would be a
five-hundred-dollar reward what Chenault
got from curtiss-wright were p-40s with
their 1040 horsepower v12 allison
engines the p40 flew 378 miles per hour
and had an eight hundred and forty mile
range there were two 50 caliber machine
guns and four wing-mounted 30 caliber
machine guns and it was the p40 that
became the primary workhorse of the avg
they couldn't fly over 20,000 feet which
was a bit of a limitation and the plane
was heavy due to the armor plating and
thickness of the metal but later on the
pilots will be thankful for that
Japanese aircraft were usually rather
thin skinned and fragile compared to the
p40 but they were much more nimble and
maneuverable so quick and agile were
these Japanese fighters ki 27s or Nate's
as they were referred to Chenault had
guaranteed his pilots if they went up
against them one on one in a dogfight
they'd get taken down Chenault would
come up with a winning flight combat
strategy that would confound the
Japanese air force time and again so in
the fall of nineteen forty one the story
of the Flying Tigers began to take shape
they all began to arrive each one
encountering their own mini adventure
along the way
Chenault initial plan called for a
hundred pilots in 150 crew he got 99
pilots who joined for 99 different
reasons patriotism and sincere desire in
their hearts to help the Chinese maybe
not chief among them 59 pilots came from
the Navy seven from the Marines and 33
from the Army and to keep everything
running Chenault got a hundred and
eighty-four crew including a chaplain
and two female nurses this amounted to a
skeleton crew for an outfit this size
and the pilots mostly had limited
training only a few had any real
applicable experience in combat the
whole thing was supposed to be hush-hush
but on the way over during the voyage
from the US west coast someone had gone
and blabbed about the mission and the
press picked up on it at once hey what
did you expect all these heroes and
waiting we're all a bunch of rough guys
in their early 20s who didn't have a
clue yet about the enormity of their
mission anyway so much for keeping this
whole operation a secret when it had
come time to poach all these pilots from
the various branches of the service no
one was anxious to cooperate with
Chenault on this it took a while to
visit all these bases and wave all that
Chinese money in front of these
prospective volunteers the terms of the
deal were so generous it was hard to
keep the volunteers away aside from the
instant promotion that came with it the
pay was two to three times what they
made currently and the hefty bonus for
every Japanese plane destroyed was a
real incentive for fighter pilots
Japan's 3 all policy was in full swing
when Chenault was in China that was one
of the reasons the China government
needed some urgent assistance kill all
burn all loot all this was Japan's
payback for the deadly bite want on the
hundred regiments offensive launched by
ponga Hawaiian late nineteen forty two
point seven million Chinese will perish
in all kinds of terrible ways as a
direct and indirect result of this
brutal three all's campaign the Sun
Guang jungsoo Japan they called it the
Sun Cossacks n that's why Chenault was
in China John kai-shek was kind of
hoping Chenault could put together an
effective force to soften the blow of
this savage Japanese offensive from the
Marco Polo Bridge incident him all the
way through to the end of 1941 and into
1942 Japan was a force no one could yet
reckon with they couldn't be beat and
their bombers dropped their payloads at
will with almost no resistance when
chong ching was being mercilessly bombed
during the summer of nineteen forty one
the avg wasn't yet prepared to deal with
it there was only one single supply
route left to get war supplies into
China this was the famous 700 mile long
and winding Burma Road that the end
Mencken Luke goods came into the port of
Rangoon down in the south and were
transported up to l'occhio in the burma
shan state and from this Burmese
terminus of the famous Road the cargo
made its way through the 3,000 meter
high mountains to could Ming this was
the only way Japan at the east coast of
China locked down and now the other
sites on Burma and the shutting down of
this road which the Japanese military
leaders called the aid to John wrote so
you know how they viewed it Chenault
shipment of 100 p-40s came to Burma and
crates the wing in one and the engine
and fuselage in another they were
assembled at their base and Burma one
crate fell overboard but was retrieved
that plane couldn't be used anymore but
the parts were still good and would soon
migrate to the other 99 planes the
logistical effort to get all these
aircraft in place the parts the
materials to build the air strips
getting the volunteers transported from
their various bases all over the United
States to the base and Burma it was a
massive organizational and logistical
undertaking just the kind of thing the
military was good at but in Chenault
case he wasn't the military he was a
volunteer on the payroll of the Chinese
so it was often the case where Chenault
was often left to his own devices to
make things happen Daniel forward in
this book that i'm using goes into a lot
of detail about this you cannot imagine
how big of a job this was in those
pre-internet preface
sex machine days the first base was at
Qaeda airfield in Tongo 175 miles north
of rangoon it was a former British base
that they gladly palmed off on the
unsuspecting Americans it was a horrible
place infested with mosquitoes and
conditions that gave you all kinds of
unpleasant tropical diseases a lot of
the men not just the troublemakers were
rebelling at the conditions the
volunteers found out the hard way that
is part of this avg outfit they didn't
get the kinds of perks that they used to
have at the US military life and tango
was quite demoralizing and some of the
volunteers handed in their notices right
quick Chenault ensure they were given
dishonorable discharges believe it or
not Chenault had to ask TV's song to
shake some trees in Washington de
transport relief supplies for his men
when they were all assembled should not
began the day in day out routine of
lectures drills and non-stop training in
a p40 Chenault understanding of japanese
aircraft and they're fighting techniques
were well known he took everything he
knew and passed it on to his pilots he
was a masterful trainer and had all the
street cred in the world as men
respected him and he hammered them
repeatedly about how to take on the
Japanese Air Force quote the way to
attack their formations is by getting
above them dive into the formation at
high speed pick your target fire at it
then continue on through breaking away
at a dive until you clear the formation
once you're well away from the fight
climb back above them and do the same
thing again above all never turn with
their fighters the p40 cannot do it
they'll be right behind you in one turn
maybe two don't even think about it if
you do we'll be picking up pieces of you
all over the jungle they will shoot you
down gentlemen make no mistake end quote
at the time of Pearl Harbor the avg had
about 80 pilots and 62 combat-ready
aircraft they were waiting for an
onslaught from 682 planes that Japan had
earmarked from their arsenal
of 1300 aircraft to fight the Burma
Campaign the avg wasn't there alone up
to now and pretty much throughout the
war in this part of Asia Britain was
front and center they had their
interests in China Hong Kong Singapore
Malaysia and were the first to clash
swords with Japan but they had been
beaten down with Singapore will fall in
February 1942 it when it does it will be
the greatest capitulation ever and
British military history 80,000 British
Australian and Indian troops will
surrender the Dutch were out there to
biting the Japanese remember they had
their colonies in Indonesia which of
course will be lost following Indonesian
independence 1949 no one was proving
effective at halting the Japanese
juggernaut could ming and chong ching
were getting bombed constantly and
people who survived were living out in
the open and although it wasn't hard
being or anything like that it was still
very cold in the winter Chenault had
wanted to base the avg and couldn't mean
but for a number of reasons it was in
burma where the avg first carried out
their missions the American volunteers
began trickling into China around july
and august the last of them would arrive
end of november 1941 Chenault had done
everything he could to make this outfit
ready each day brought a new set of
challenges he had already lost men in
accidents and in the next episode in
part two we'll pick up where Chenault
has divided the group into three
squadrons and although they don't know
it yet they're going to first write
their names into the history books come
December twentieth nineteen forty one
we'll look at those eight months from
Pearl Harbor until the fourth of July
1942 when the avg was disbanded when
that fateful day went down in december
seven that had a great impact on the
immediacy of the avg mission thailand
would fall three days after the attack
on Pearl Harbor and there next to our
neighbor Burma was next and that's all
for next time in part to the legend of
the Flying Tigers begins when they
together with the Royal Air Force and
the chai
take the fight to the Japanese again the
book is flying tigers Claire Chennault
and his American volunteers 1941 in 1942
so until we meet again in part to this
is laszlo Montgomery signing off from
sunny and beautiful Los Angeles
California consider joining me next time
here at the China history podcast for
the exciting conclusion of the story the
Flying Tigers take care everyone